Welcome back.
Now remember with databases there's 800 that each one of them is good for a particular problem has some
benefits and some cons aswell.
Now with databases you always want to think about the big picture and what the benefits of that databases.
In our case we know that redness is an in memory storage.
So that means it's super super fast for us to access.
We can get values really really fast from it but it has that downside where it only takes a snapshot
and writes it on disk occasionally so you might lose some data if the server goes down.
And we know that rattus is often used for small pieces the data like session management or maybe even
caching some small data which we'll talk about.
But another part of databases you want to look at is what kind of data types can they support and based
on these data types that fit your needs.
A database might be good or bad for your project.
So in this video in the next couple videos we're going to talk about what some of these datatypes are
that breadths uses.
And what we're going to use in the future section on sessions and JACT the very basic one and if you
remember rattus is a key value storage that is we give it a key and a value.
And we're we're going to be able to access that value from that key.
So let me show you the very basic commands with thread is to set and look of that it already gives me
options and hence by Dollon this read a CLID what I can put so I can set key and value and some options
as well.
So let's say that I want to set name to Godzilla nuts a string if I press enter I get OK.
Now we're Same here I can now get this name whenever I want by saying Get name and I get Godzilla and
that's it.
Key value storage is simply that you give it a key you give it a value.
And now we can use the get command to get that value back.
Another command you on is to see if something exists.
So if I do exists name I get.
I have one name and I can also run the delete command so I can delete the name command.
Now fibrin exists name.
No there there's no name there.
And if I do get name.
No no I have absolutely nothing.
Before I keep going into more comments I want to show you that once again documentation's are your friend.
If you go to the your their documentation tab which I have opened over here they have a ton of resources
for you.
But the one we're interested in is the full list of commands.
And as you can see here they give you a really nice breakdown on what everything does.
So let's have a look on one of these.
We see that we want to try the expire comment.
And if I click on here will see that it sets a time out on key after the time has expired the key will
automatically be the leader.
All right.
So let's say that we want to try this out.
We can just simply say expire or we have to set something first so let's just set set a say session
and Obi Jenny's session and will say that expire session and how many seconds but let's say that we
want to have it in 10 seconds to expire.
Now if I do get session I get Gennie I wait 10 seconds though and try get to session again O session
is gone because I made it expire.
How cool is that.
Again each database has its own set of features and Rhetors has this nice expire where you can just
expire things to be deleted from the database whenever you want.
Another really useful tool was something like perhaps sessions if you want to expire a session for example
of a user where after let's say a day they have to resign in into the OP.
That's an easy thing that we can do right away with red X.
Let's try a few more commands.
We can set counter to 100.
And we're just doing a simple key value storage.
Now we can do another command Anke increment by.
That's a little tough to spell but increment by we give it a key counter and we'll get say 50 or less
do 33.
Look at that.
Now our counter
is
incremented by 33.
Very cool.
And as you can imagine there's also the decrement or decrement key and we'll document the counter and
we can give it let's say 33 and yep it actually with decrement the default and the only working default
is that it is just recommending by one.
If I run this you see that the integer has now been documented by one.
All right.
A few more things to go through.
But let's take a break and I'll see you in the next video.